We're going to talk about ChatGPT.
ChatGPT is actually a web app, right?
It's a web app that it's based on or
is using something known as a GPT model.
GPT stands for
generative pre-trained transformer.
Okay, what's that?
Well, that's actually one
specific model of a set of
models known as large language models,
LLMs.
So every time we see LLMs, we
are talking about large language models.
So these are AI models that were trained
for natural language processing.
The idea is they were trained with text,
but trillions of text.
And they know how text work.
Again, I'm not going to explain
here how these models work,
but the basic idea to take this for
something really, really, really basic.
Think about when you have
a smart keyboard on your phone,
that we have a prediction
of the next word.
I mean, you're typing, hello,
how, and your phone will say R,
it will appear as a recommendation, as
a suggestion, and then you, how are you?
Because that's the most probably two
words that comes after hello, how.
LLMs are kind of that
with a million asteroids.
That's kind of the idea.
So LLMs knows, statistically,
which words comes after other words.
That's kind of the idea.
That's the whole idea behind this.
The problem is that, not the problem,
the situation is that we the community,
even the developers,
the scientists working with GPT,
they realize that it's not just words,
that at one point,
it feels like behind the scenes,
there is some kind of reasoning.
I'm not going to discuss here
if it's true or not, but
we feel when we talk with ChatGPT,
that sometimes it feels its reasoning.
So there is,
I don't wanna say intelligence, but
we have some sparks of something.
And that's why everyone is excited
today about LLMs and ChatGPT.
And by the way, we have LLMs today in
the market from other companies as well.
We have LLaMA from Meta.
We have from Google.
We have Lambda, that's the one that
we don't see, it's an internal.
But then we have Google Bard that
is a product using Lambda, and
many other therapy are in
from other companies as well.
But ChatGPT was the first public one,
the first one that was
available to the public.
It seems to be still
the best one out there.
So LLMs are actually part of
the deep learning umbrella.
And the deep learning umbrella is part
of the machine learning umbrella.
That is actually what we typically say or
typically know today as AI or
artificial intelligence.
Just to mention different concepts and
how they apply here.
So AI, we have one kind of AI
known as machine learning.
And there is one kind of machine
learning known as deep learning.
And within deep learning we have LLMs and
we have GPTs,
and then we have ChatGPT
as one product of that.
And ChatGPT is actually a product,
a website,
an app from a company known as OpenAI.
OpenAI is not really open,
these days, at least.
It's the company behind ChatGPT.
And it's not the only product they have.
They have other things.
For example,
if you have heard about DALL-E,
this was also one of the first public
artificial intelligence image generator,
in this case, DALL-E is not an LLM.
It's a different kind of
machine learning model.
And OpenAI is also
offering to the community,
the development community,
and app community, APIs.
We will focus there actually,
not really over ChatGPT but on APIs,
APIs that are also using GPT, so they're
using the same GPT model as ChatGPT.
So when you go to ChatGPT,
you're using a GPT model, and
we're going to use an API from the same
company that is also using the GPT model.
So that's how we are going to
connect to ChatGPT most of the time.
And just to finish that empty
part of the slide that we
have there,
OpenAI has partnered with Microsoft.
So Microsoft is not owning OpenAI, but
there is a really strong
partnership between both companies.
And Microsoft is also offering
Bing Chat that it's now integrated
in many places on bing.com but
also on Microsoft Edge as a tab.
And also,
Microsoft is integrating LLMs in many
softwares such as Office or Visual Studio.
And Microsoft is also
offering Azure OpenAI APIs.
So if you're used to a Microsoft APIs
on Azure, you can also use GPT,
so the same source, the same model
as ChatGPT, but using the Microsoft
infrastructure and using the Microsoft
business contract over there.
Today, we will be focusing here.
So we are going to mostly use APIs that
are using the GPT model from OpenAI.
That is the same model
that is using ChatGPT.
Makes sense?
That's kind of the idea.
That's the architecture.
So that's where we're going to focus.
Azure OpenAI APIs are also the same thing.
So if you learn how to use
directly API from OpenAI,
you can move to Azure at any time.
But as we are doing this video,
Azure OpenAI APIs are still in beta,
and closed, so
you need to apply to get access to them.
So we're going to use the one from
OpenAI that they are open to everyone.
Also, we will talk a little bit
about something on top of ChatGPT.
It's known as plugins.
Plugins for ChatGPT are also something
that is not yet available to every user.
But it's another way that we have as web
developers, or as service providers,
or content providers,
to integrate into the ChatGPT ecosystem.
So large language models can be used for
several tasks without changing or
training models.
So before LLMs were actually so popular,
in the deep learning environment,
we have to select one particular model
that we need for something in particular.
We wanna categorize products,
we had a model for that.
We wanna translate, we had a model.
And most of the time we were able
to train our own models, okay?
That's part of deep learning.
But now we realize that we
can use LLMs such as GPT for
a lot of tasks without the need to
change the model or to train any model.
That's why everyone is excited about LLMs.
We found that it's very useful for
a lot of tasks.